# Push_Swap42
Ordering a Stack with limited operations available.
<h1>Push_swap</h1>

<p>This project focuses on data sorting on a stack using a limited set of instructions, aiming to achieve the sort with the minimum possible number of operations.</p>

<h2>Table of Contents</h2>

<ol>
  <li><a href="#introduction">Introduction</a></li>
  <li><a href="#objectives">Objectives</a></li>
  <li><a href="#common-instructions">Common Instructions</a></li>
  <li><a href="#mandatory-part">Mandatory Part</a></li>
  <li><a href="#bonus-part">Bonus Part</a></li>
</ol>

<h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>

<p>Push swap project focuses on creating a simple, straightforward sorting algorithm that uses two stacks and a set of instructions to manipulate both stacks. The primary goal is to write a program in C called push_swap, which calculates and displays the smallest program, composed of push_swap language instructions, to sort the integers received as arguments.</p>

<h2 id="objectives">Objectives</h2>

<p>Writing a sorting algorithm is a critical step for a developer as it introduces the concept of complexity. The key learning objectives of this project are rigor, the use of C, and the application of basic algorithms with a focus on complexity.</p>

<h2 id="common-instructions">Common Instructions</h2>

<ul>
  <li>Project must be written in C.</li>
  <li>It should comply with the Norm.</li>
  <li>It should not quit unexpectedly (segmentation fault, bus error, double free, etc).</li>
  <li>All heap allocated memory space must be properly freed when necessary.</li>
  <li>Submission must include a Makefile to compile source files to the required output.</li>
  <li>If the project allows libft, its sources and associated Makefile should be copied in a libft folder.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="mandatory-part">Mandatory Part</h2>

<p>The project involves two stacks named a and b, and a set of instructions to manipulate both stacks.</p>
<p>The goal is to sort the integers into stack a in ascending order using operations like swap, push, rotate and reverse rotate.</p>
<p>The program named push_swap should take stack a as a list of integers and display the smallest list of instructions possible to sort the stack.</p>

<h2 id="bonus-part">Bonus Part</h2>

<p>Create a checker program to verify whether the list of instructions generated by the push_swap program actually sorts the stack properly.</p>
<p>The checker program takes stack a as a list of integers, waits and reads instructions on the standard input, and executes them on the stack.</p>
<p>If the stack a is sorted after executing the instructions and stack b is empty, the checker should display "OK". In any other case, it should display "KO".</p>
